resources/readme/instructions.md, before:

## Running PyAFAR

PyAFAR has two settings--basic and advanced to obtain landmarks, head pose and action unit predictions.

### Basic settings

![Basic settings](../images/basic_settings.JPG)

These are necessary settings that include path to videos to process, save and other information.

- `Input Videos`: path to the folder containing videos that need to be processed
- `Save Folder`: path to save the output from PyAFAR for the input videos
- `Browse` button enables browsing and selecting the folders interactively
- `PyAFAR version`: Since adult and infant AU predictions are from different set of models, choose the appropriate one using the radio button.


### Advanced settings

![Advanced settings](../images/advanced_settings.JPG)

- `Use GPU`: GPUs enable faster AU predictions. If your machine has a GPU that you wish to use, enable this.
- `Batch size`: The batch size for AU predictions. Larger GPUs memory can accommodate higher batch size.
- `Preprocessing batch size`: Batch size parameter for all pre-AU prediction operations. A higher batch size would require more RAM but speeds up the pipeline.
- `Person Tracking`: Enables individual tracking in case of a multiperson video. Recommended to disable it if the video contains one individual to speed up the pipeline.
- `AU occurrence`: Choice of occurrence predictions required from the Input Videos.
- `AU intensity`: Choice of intensity predictions required from the Input Videos.

Commit message:

updated to v3.0
Added notice on tracking disabling and upgraded instructions to support v3.0 through python3.9

resources/readme/instructions.md, after:

## Running PyAFAR

PyAFAR has two settings--basic and advanced to obtain landmarks, head pose and action unit predictions.

### Basic settings

![Basic settings](../images/basic_settings.JPG)

These are necessary settings that include path to videos to process, save and other information.

- `Input Videos`: path to the folder containing videos that need to be processed
- `Save Folder`: path to save the output from PyAFAR for the input videos
- `Browse` button enables browsing and selecting the folders interactively
- `PyAFAR version`: Since adult and infant AU predictions are from different set of models, choose the appropriate one using the radio button.


### Advanced settings

![Advanced settings](../images/advanced_settings.JPG)

- `Use GPU`: GPUs enable faster AU predictions. If your machine has a GPU that you wish to use, enable this.
- `Batch size`: The batch size for AU predictions. Larger GPUs memory can accommodate higher batch size.
- `Preprocessing batch size`: Batch size parameter for all pre-AU prediction operations. A higher batch size would require more RAM but speeds up the pipeline.
- `AU occurrence`: Choice of occurrence predictions required from the Input Videos.
- `AU intensity`: Choice of intensity predictions required from the Input Videos.

The `Person Tracking` feature that tracks individuals in case of a multiperson video, is now disabled as MediaPipe deprecated python 3.7 support. We are working on the fix.
